README.md, before:

# SFS_Engine_Calculator
A Python command line tool to tell you the best combination of engines for every stage of a given rocket in the game Spaceflight Simulator.

# Python version isn't yet functional or close to being such
Being worked on (hopefully still will be when you read this). In the meantime, the Scratch version works.

# Links
[Development Scratch version](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/440582854), [TurboWarp](https://turbowarp.org/440582854) (I edit it there online and commit releases to this repo with changelogs, but that version works most of the time and can be run in-browser).

[Calculator wiki](https://github.com/DroneBetter/SFS_Engine_Calculator/wiki) (explains some equations used, isn't finished).

Play Spaceflight Simulator itself: [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.StefMorojna.SpaceflightSimulator), [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/spaceflight-simulator/id1308057272).

# What's the difference between the Python and Scratch version?
The Scratch one was initially going to be the only version, when I didn't know much about rocketry, but in making it I realised the most efficient engine combination for a stage isn't the best for the entire rocket, if a lighter one's reduced efficiency in its stage is outweighed by its increase to the efficiency of lower stages from its reduced mass. The Python version will account for this; instead of analysing combinations in a stage, it will analyse all combinations of combinations across all stages.

The Scratch version calculates delta-v (its metric for comparing combinations) with the [Tsiolkovsky rocket equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsiolkovsky_rocket_equation) but with gravity, meaning it assumes gravity is constant throughout operation (but can much more efficiently find maximum liftoff mass and optimal fuel tank mass and delta-v). The Python one will use altitude to calculate gravity as it simulates the rocket's flight frame-by-frame (though a faster Tsiolkovsky option for orbital stages will be added).

# TODO
## Python
Make constants calculation work, make documentation (explain what every function and variable does, possibly disambiguate variable names in the process), clean up earlier functions (ie. findCombinations()) and finish the delta-v calculation and output display, eventually make most functions use return() to be cleaner and use fewer lists.

## Scratch
Re-add temporarily-removed things (like angle and percentage of fuel expected to be used, buttons currently ineffectual) and add more such options (with the other Tsiolkovsky-derived equations), electricity logistics (so it doesn't try to maximise Ion Engines when each is 5 times heavier with necessary solar panel arrays, will be togglable because 1.5 temporarily removed it) and non-1.5 engine statistics (though most wiki pages are unclear about the exact versions of changes) (will also be in toggling submenu).

Make option for whether craft lifts off from the ground or the air only exist if gravity > 0, otherwise hide option when inapplicable (also make minimum TWR hide at 0 gravity).

Make optimal fuel mass equation also account for fuel tank mass only being 90% fuel.

Eventually add mouse-only navigation (for mobile users, because they can use the buttons and input parameters with on-screen keyboards but can't toggle graphing mode or do the calculation because they can't press G or space).

Commit message:

Remove done things from Scratch TODO, clarify unexplained things
Also minor fixes to Python TODO.

README.md, after:

# SFS_Engine_Calculator
A Python command line tool to tell you the best combination of engines for every stage of a given rocket in the game Spaceflight Simulator.

# Python version isn't yet functional or close to being such
Being worked on (hopefully still will be when you read this). In the meantime, the Scratch version works.

# Links
[Development Scratch version](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/440582854), [TurboWarp](https://turbowarp.org/440582854) (I edit it there online and commit releases to this repo with changelogs, but that version works most of the time and can be run in-browser).

[Calculator wiki](https://github.com/DroneBetter/SFS_Engine_Calculator/wiki) (explains some equations used, isn't finished).

Play Spaceflight Simulator itself: [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.StefMorojna.SpaceflightSimulator), [iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/spaceflight-simulator/id1308057272).

# What's the difference between the Python and Scratch version?
The Scratch one was initially going to be the only version, when I didn't know much about rocketry, but in making it I realised the most efficient engine combination for a stage isn't the best for the entire rocket, if a lighter one's reduced efficiency in its stage is outweighed by its increase to the efficiency of lower stages from its reduced mass. The Python version will account for this; instead of analysing combinations in a stage, it will analyse all combinations of combinations across all stages.

The Scratch version calculates delta-v (its metric for comparing combinations) with the [Tsiolkovsky rocket equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsiolkovsky_rocket_equation) but with gravity, meaning it assumes gravity is constant throughout operation (but can much more efficiently find maximum liftoff mass and optimal fuel tank mass and delta-v). The Python one will use altitude to calculate gravity as it simulates the rocket's flight frame-by-frame (though a faster Tsiolkovsky option for orbital stages will be added).

# TODO
## Python
Make constants calculation work, make documentation (explain what every function and variable does, possibly disambiguate variable names in the process) and finish the frame-by-frame delta-v calculation and output display, make more (possibly all) functions use return() for their outputs to be cleaner and use fewer lists and allow more concise abstraction.

## Scratch
Re-add temporarily-removed things (like angle and percentage of fuel expected to be used, buttons currently ineffectual), add more threshold options with the other Tsiolkovsky-derived equations (ie. a toggle of whether to change fuel tank mass to a combination's optimal and treat the inputted fuel tank mass as a maximum instead of a given) and non-1.5 engine statistics (though most wiki pages are unclear about the exact versions of statistic changes) (will also be in toggling submenu).

Eventually add mouse-only navigation (for mobile users, because they can use the buttons with touchscreens and input numbers with on-screen keyboards but can't toggle graphing mode or do the calculation because they can't press G or space), potentially keyboard-only mode (with QWERTY physical key positions corresponding with button positions).
